The pandas package of Python is a really cool app that provides a versatile set of data analysis tools and helps you keep things organized. The package runs on two primary data structures called Series (1 dimensional) and Dataframe (2 dimensional). It performs things like data cleaning that handles things like missing data, duplicates, and data imputation. Pandas also allows you to transform and reshape data more efficiently. It provides tons of more features but it is a really cool features to make your life easier working with Python. This could be beneficial in my career because of the ability to analyze data better, which could be beneficial to any field of Tech I go into.
SQLAlchemy is a toolkit SQL and an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for Python. It provides a full set of well-known and high level patterns, designed for efficient and high-performing database access. It is said to simplify the process of working with databases. SQLAlchemy allows developers to interact with databases using Python objects, making it easier to manage database records without writing raw SQL. Learning about SQLAlchemy could be beneficial in my career because of the ability I would learn to interact and efficiently manage databases easier than if I hadn’t learned it, which could be beneficial no matter what field of Technology I end up going into.
BeautifulSoup is different Python library that is used for web scraping and pulling the data out of the HTML and XML files. It creates something called a ‘parse tree’ from page source codes that can be used to extract data easily. BeautifulSoup can be used for iterating, searching, and changing the parse tree, making it simple to navigate through the content. It is often used in combination with requests to download web pages and then parse them with BeautifulSoup, allowing developers to extract the information they need from websites efficiently. I think it could be beneficial to me with navigating the extraction of information from HTML Files — I have no doubt I’ll be working with them so it would be wildly beneficial to learn about it.
The ‘urllib’ package in Python is pretty much just a bunch of modules used for working with URLs. It provides a whole bunch of ways for fetching data across the web, handling URL ‘parsing”, and managing HTTP requests. With ‘urllib’, you can open and read URLs, send data to servers, and handle cookies. This package is top-tier for web scraping, data retrieval, and any application that requires interaction with web resources. This could be beneficial for my career for all of the reasons I said above! I think being able to properly fetch data from across the web is something that is going to help me in every aspect of my career.
NumPy, short for Numerical Python, is a package for scientific computing in Python. It provides support for arrays, matrices, and a collection of mathematical functions to operate on these data structures. NumPy is particularly helpful for handling large pools of data and performing complex mathematical operations efficiently. This package has been called essential for tasks involving things like Linear Algebra and makes this a go-to tool for data-manipulation and overall analysis of data. This could wildly beneficial because of the easier time I could have with math questions! I’ve never had a strong-suit in Math before so it’s cool to think that even if I go into a computer field that focuses on Math, that I have resources to help me along!